---
layout: post
title: "How IT major sharpen my mind (soft skills)"
date: 2021-06-09 15:33:00 +0800
background: '/img/posts/nb.jpg'
tags: 
- daily-life
---
People may focus on the hard skills of IT, while they look for a course related to IT fields. Soft skills can also be learnt throughout the repeatitive training. I would like to share my thoughts of what IT major brings myself the insight(s).


<div class="table-content">
    <p>Content</p>
    <p>
    <ul>
    <li><a href="#set-A">Mindset of automation</a></li>
    <li><a href="#set-B">Soft Skills Learnt in IT major</a></li>
    <li><a href="#set-C">Last Words</a></li>
    </ul>
    </p>
</div>


<p><div class="left-margin" id="set-A"><h2>Mindset of automation</h2></div></p>

One of the obvious benefits of IT is the automation. With knowledge to do auotmation, you can know how to:

1. Save time. Some manual works can be reduced by program. You can design a desirable function by yourself, while there is no cooperation needed (for small development).

2. Save money. If you ask for an IT built, you may need to pay money to skillful people. If you do all them by yourself, you need to spend time instead of money. You may save further time by taking organized courses in IT aspects.

For example, in my blog, I pick one free template and add some desirable functions by myself. I don't need to pay or negotiate to others for the final work done, and I can predict the final results by myself.

<br><br>
<p><div class="left-margin" id="set-B"><h2>Soft Skills Learnt in IT major</h2></div></p>

1. **Logical thinking**: Learn requirements and outputs.

    You can learn to perform a function in a logical order, with the realization of required final outputs. This kind of thinking can be obtained in a simple function as well. <br>For example, if you want to print a pyramid, after asking user input of its height. You need to well define the orders of the executions, and assign the variable to the logical functions. You can be trained to think during the process.

2. **Be patient**: There are a lot of failures.

    I was so frustrated at the beginning, about the amount of failures to a simple programming assignment. However, it is quite normal to encounter problems with new programming languages. It is required to find solutions in a better pace with calm, so the patience is trained.

3. **Generate Results**: Follow Rules

    There are some rules exisiting in programming, so the codes can be interpreted to the computer, and start working. Programmer may know the underlying things, but the users can observe the user interface, or so-called outputs only. 
    This leads myself thinking of the skills of painting. It is about to make the painted objects looking good under some rules, such as sunshine, or air reflection. This mindset allows myself to learn new skills better.

<br><br>
<p><div class="left-margin" id="set-C"><h2>Last Words</h2></div></p>

It was a hard time to study IT major, but I get quite satisfied with the soft skills obtained. Hard skills may fade according to time, but I believe soft skills can last longer in my life.